README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <picture>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="asset/logo_dark.png">
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="asset/logo_light.png">
    <img alt="OneVision Encoder" src="output/logo.png" width="600" style="max-width: 100%;">
  </picture>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <strong>HEVC-Style Vision Transformer</strong>
</p>

<div align="center">

🤗 **[Models](https://huggingface.co/lmms-lab-encoder/onevision-encoder-large)** |
🤗 **[Datasets (Coming)]()** |
📄 **[Technical Report (Coming)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.23661)** |

</div>

## 📖 Table of Contents

- [Introduction](#-introduction)
- [Setup](#-setup)
- [Quick Start](#-quick-start)
- [Training](#-training)
- [Evaluation](#-evaluation)
- [Contributors](#-contributors)
- [License](#-license)
- [Documentation](#-documentation)

---

## 🔍 Introduction

Video understanding models face a fundamental trade-off: processing more frames captures richer temporal information but increases computation quadratically. Traditional approaches address this through sparse frame sampling, but this discards fine-grained motion dynamics and treats all spatial regions equally, wasting computation on static backgrounds.

We present OneVision Encoder, a vision transformer that resolves this trade-off using principles from HEVC (High-Efficiency Video Coding) video compression. Instead of sampling sparse frames densely (all patches from few frames), we sample dense frames sparsely (important patches from many frames). Our codec-style patch selection identifies temporally-salient regions with motion, object interactions, or semantic changes and processes only these informative patches.

Combined with global contrastive learning using a 2M concept memory bank, OneVision Encoder achieves state-of-the-art results on video benchmarks (MVBench, VideoMME, Perception Test) and image understanding tasks (DocVQA, ChartQA, OCRBench).

### Method Overview

<p align="center">
  <picture>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/anxiangsir/asset/main/OneVision/method_github_dark.png">
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/anxiangsir/asset/main/OneVision/method_github_light.png">
    <img alt="OneVision Encoder Method Overview" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/anxiangsir/asset/main/OneVision/method_github_light.png" width="900" style="max-width: 100%;">
  </picture>
</p>

### Video Processing Pipeline

The visualization below demonstrates our complete video processing pipeline. The animation shows four key stages: (1) Original Video - a continuous 64-frame stream capturing the full temporal context, (2) Uniform Frame Sampling - traditional approach selecting 4-8 evenly-spaced frames, which is simple but lossy and misses inter-frame motion, (3) Temporal Saliency Detection - analysis of all 64 frames to identify regions with high temporal information such as motion, appearance changes, and semantic events, and (4) Codec-Style Patch Extraction - extraction of only the salient patches in zigzag order, achieving 75-98% compression while preserving temporal dynamics.

<div align="center">
<table>
  <tr>
    <td align="center">
      <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/anxiangsir/asset/main/OneVision/case4.gif" alt="Case 4 Demonstration" width="800"><br>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="center">
      <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/anxiangsir/asset/main/OneVision/case5.gif" alt="Case 5 Demonstration" width="800"><br>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</div>

### Cluster Discrimination Visualization

Standard contrastive learning (e.g., CLIP) is limited by batch size—negative samples are drawn only from the current batch, typically 32K-64K examples. This creates a narrow view of the embedding space and leads to suboptimal representations. Our approach maintains a global concept bank of 2M clustered centers, enabling each training sample to contrast against a diverse, representative set of negatives regardless of batch composition. This produces more discriminative embeddings with better-separated semantic clusters.


<p align="center">
  <picture>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/anxiangsir/asset/main/OneVision/loss_github_dark.gif">
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/anxiangsir/asset/main/OneVision/loss_github_light.gif">
    <img alt="Training Loss Visualization" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/anxiangsir/asset/main/OneVision/loss_github_light.gif" width="800" style="max-width: 100%;">
  </picture>
</p>


---


### LMM Probe Results

Training on a mixed dataset of 740K samples from LLaVA-OneVision and 800K samples from LLaVA-Video SFT. The training pipeline proceeds directly to Stage 2 fine-tuning. We adopt a streamlined native-resolution strategy inspired by LLaVA-OneVision: when the input frame resolution matches the model's native input size, it is fed directly—without tiling or cropping—to evaluate the ViT's native resolution capability.

<p align="center">
  <picture>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/anxiangsir/asset/main/OneVision/probe_lmm_github_dark_fixed.png">
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/anxiangsir/asset/main/OneVision/probe_lmm_github_light.png">
    <img alt="LMM Probe Results" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/anxiangsir/asset/main/OneVision/probe_lmm_github_light.png" width="800" style="max-width: 100%;">
  </picture>
</p>

### Attentive Probe Results

Performance comparison of different vision encoders using Attentive Probe evaluation. Models are evaluated using single clip input and trained for 10 epochs across 8 action recognition datasets. Results show average performance and per-dataset scores for 8-frame and 16-frame configurations.

<p align="center">
  <picture>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/anxiangsir/asset/main/OneVision/fix_00_probe_video_github_dark.png">
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/anxiangsir/asset/main/OneVision/fix_00_probe_video_github_light.png">
    <img alt="LMM Probe Results" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/anxiangsir/asset/main/OneVision/probe_lmm_github_light.png" width="900" style="max-width: 100%;">
  </picture>
</p>





## 🔧 Setup

### Prerequisites

- Docker with NVIDIA GPU support
- CUDA-compatible GPU(s)

### Docker Build

#### Option 1: Build from Dockerfile

```bash
docker build -t ov_encoder:25.12 .
```

### Running the Container

#### Single Node

```bash
docker run -it --gpus all --ipc host --net host --privileged \
    -v "$(pwd)":/workspace/OneVision-Encoder \
    -w /workspace/OneVision-Encoder \
    ov_encoder:25.12 bash
```


### Install Package

Inside the container, install the package in editable mode:

```bash
pip install -e .
```

---

## ⚡ Quick Start

> **Note:** This model supports native resolution input. For optimal performance:
> - **Image**: 448×448 resolution (pre-trained)
> - **Video**: 224×224 resolution with 256 tokens per frame (pre-trained)
>
> Use CLIP preprocessing from the [model repository](https://huggingface.co/lmms-lab-encoder/onevision-encoder-large).

```python
from transformers import AutoModel, AutoImageProcessor
from PIL import Image
import torch

# Load model and preprocessor
model = AutoModel.from_pretrained(
    "lmms-lab-encoder/onevision-encoder-large",
    trust_remote_code=True,
    attn_implementation="flash_attention_2"
).to("cuda").eval()

preprocessor = AutoImageProcessor.from_pretrained(
    "lmms-lab-encoder/onevision-encoder-large",
    trust_remote_code=True
)

# Image inference: [B, C, H, W]
image = Image.open("path/to/your/image.jpg")  # Replace with your image path
pixel_values = preprocessor(images=image, return_tensors="pt")["pixel_values"].to("cuda")
with torch.no_grad():
    outputs = model(pixel_values)
    # outputs.last_hidden_state: [B, num_patches, hidden_size]
    # outputs.pooler_output: [B, hidden_size]

# Video inference: [B, C, T, H, W] with visible_indices
num_frames, frame_tokens, target_frames = 16, 256, 64
# Load video frames and preprocess each frame (replace with your video frame paths)
frames = [Image.open(f"path/to/frame_{i}.jpg") for i in range(num_frames)]
video_pixel_values = preprocessor(images=frames, return_tensors="pt")["pixel_values"]
# Reshape from [T, C, H, W] to [B, C, T, H, W]
video = video_pixel_values.unsqueeze(0).permute(0, 2, 1, 3, 4).to("cuda")

# Build visible_indices for temporal sampling
frame_pos = torch.linspace(0, target_frames - 1, num_frames).long().cuda()
visible_indices = (frame_pos.unsqueeze(-1) * frame_tokens + torch.arange(frame_tokens).cuda()).reshape(1, -1)
# visible_indices example (with 256 tokens per frame):
#   Frame 0 (pos=0):  indices [0, 1, 2, ..., 255]
#   Frame 1 (pos=4):  indices [1024, 1025, 1026, ..., 1279]
#   Frame 2 (pos=8):  indices [2048, 2049, 2050, ..., 2303]
#   ...
#   Frame 15 (pos=63): indices [16128, 16129, ..., 16383]

with torch.no_grad():
    outputs = model(video, visible_indices=visible_indices)
```

### Codec Input

Add codec-style input documentation for temporal saliency-based patch selection.

---

## 🚀 Training

### Single Node & Multi Node

Training configurations and hyperparameters will be documented soon.  For now, please refer to `--help` for available options.

## 📊 Evaluation

### Attentive Probe Evaluation


#### Chunk-wise Sampling Evaluation

To evaluate the encoder with uniform frame sampling, first navigate to the evaluation directory:

```bash
cd eval_encoder
```

Then run the following command:

```bash
torchrun --nproc_per_node=8 --master_port=29507 attentive_probe.py \
  --eval_freq 1 \
  --default_lr_list 0.0001 \
  --batch_size 32 \
  --default_weight_decay 0 \
  --dali_py_num_workers 8 \
  --model_family llava_vit_sampling \
  --dataset diving48 \
  --num_frames 8 \
  --model_weight lmms-lab-encoder/onevision-encoder-large \
  --model_name hf_llava_vit_large_ln \
  --embedding_size 1024 \
  --frames_token_num 256
```

**Sampling-Specific Parameters:**
- `frames_token_num`: Number of tokens per frame (e.g., 256 tokens for standard sampling).

#### OV-Encoder Codec Evaluation

To evaluate the encoder with codec-style patch selection, first navigate to the evaluation directory:

```bash
cd eval_encoder
```

Then run the following command:

```bash
torchrun --nproc_per_node=8 --master_port=29512 attentive_prob_codec.py \
  --eval_freq 1 \
  --default_lr_list 0.0001 \
  --batch_size 4 \
  --default_weight_decay 0 \
  --dali_py_num_workers 8 \
  --model_family llava_vit_codec \
  --dataset diving48 \
  --num_frames 64 \
  --model_weight lmms-lab/onevision-encoder-large \
  --model_name hf_llava_vit_large_ln \
  --embedding_size 1024 \
  --default_epoch 30 \
  --data_root /path/to/your/data_attentive_probe/ \
  --cache_dir /path/to/your/cache_residuals/ \
  --K_keep 2048 \
  --mv_compensate median
```

**Codec-Specific Parameters:**
- `cache_dir`: Directory for cached codec patches. This is where the codec-selected patches will be stored/loaded.
- `K_keep`: Number of patches to keep. For example, 256 patches per frame × 8 frames = 2048 total patches. Adjust based on your frame count and desired compression ratio.
- `mv_compensate`: Motion vector compensation method (e.g., `median`).

#### Shared Parameters

The following parameters are common to both evaluation methods:

- `dataset`: Dataset to evaluate on (e.g., `diving48`, `ssv2`, `kinetics400`). Prepare the dataset according to the Attentive Probe format.
- `num_frames`: Total number of frames in the video sequence (e.g., 8 for sampling, 64 for codec).
- `model_weight`: Path to the pre-trained model. Use `lmms-lab-encoder/onevision-encoder-large` to load directly from HuggingFace, or provide a local path.
- `model_name`: Model architecture name (e.g., `hf_llava_vit_large_ln`).
- `embedding_size`: Size of the embedding dimension (e.g., 1024).
- `batch_size`: Training batch size (varies by evaluation type).
- `default_lr_list`: Learning rate for the probe training.
- `default_weight_decay`: Weight decay for optimization.
- `eval_freq`: Evaluation frequency during training.
- `dali_py_num_workers`: Number of DALI data loading workers.
- `data_root`: Root directory containing your prepared dataset (codec evaluation only).



## 👥 Contributors

<!-- Add contributor list here -->

---

## 📄 License

This project is released under the Apache 2.0 License.

---

## 📚 Documentation

- [Model Card](docs/model_card.md) - Detailed documentation for OneVision Encoder Large model
- [Data Card](docs/datacard.md) - Training dataset information and statistics

Commit message:

Improve clarity and conciseness in README content
Refined language for clarity and conciseness throughout the README, enhancing descriptions of the OneVision Encoder and its methodologies.

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <picture>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="asset/logo_dark.png">
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="asset/logo_light.png">
    <img alt="OneVision Encoder" src="output/logo.png" width="600" style="max-width: 100%;">
  </picture>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <strong>HEVC-Style Vision Transformer</strong>
</p>

<div align="center">

🤗 **[Models](https://huggingface.co/lmms-lab-encoder/onevision-encoder-large)** |
🤗 **[Datasets (Coming)]()** |
📄 **[Technical Report (Coming)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.23661)** |

</div>

## 📖 Table of Contents

- [Introduction](#-introduction)
- [Setup](#-setup)
- [Quick Start](#-quick-start)
- [Training](#-training)
- [Evaluation](#-evaluation)
- [Contributors](#-contributors)
- [License](#-license)
- [Documentation](#-documentation)

---

## 🔍 Introduction

Video understanding models face a fundamental trade-off: incorporating more frames enables richer temporal reasoning but increases computational cost quadratically. 
Conventional approaches mitigate this by sparsely sampling frames, however, this strategy discards fine-grained motion dynamics and treats all spatial regions uniformly, resulting in wasted computation on static content.

We introduce OneVision Encoder, a vision transformer that resolves this trade-off by drawing inspiration from HEVC (High-Efficiency Video Coding). Rather than densely processing all patches from a few frames, OneVision Encoder sparsely selects informative patches from many frames. This codec-inspired patch selection mechanism identifies temporally salient regions (e.g., motion, object interactions, and semantic changes) and allocates computation exclusively to these informative areas.

Coupled with global contrastive learning over a 2M-scale concept memory bank, OneVision Encoder achieves state-of-the-art performance across major video benchmarks (MVBench, VideoMME, Perception Test), while also delivering strong results on image understanding tasks (DocVQA, ChartQA, and OCRBench).

### Method Overview

<p align="center">
  <picture>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/anxiangsir/asset/main/OneVision/method_github_dark.png">
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/anxiangsir/asset/main/OneVision/method_github_light.png">
    <img alt="OneVision Encoder Method Overview" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/anxiangsir/asset/main/OneVision/method_github_light.png" width="900" style="max-width: 100%;">
  </picture>
</p>

### Video Processing Pipeline

The visualization below illustrates four different video processing pipelines. 
(1) Original Video: a continuous 64-frame sequence that preserves the complete temporal context.
(2) Uniform Frame Sampling: a conventional strategy that selects 4–8 evenly spaced frames; while simple and efficient, it is inherently lossy and fails to capture fine-grained inter-frame motion.
(3) Temporal Saliency Detection: a global analysis of all 64 frames to identify regions rich in temporal information, including motion patterns, appearance variations, and semantic events.
(4) Codec-Style Patch Extraction: selective extraction of the temporally salient patches in a zigzag order, achieving 75–98% compression while retaining critical temporal dynamics.

<div align="center">
<table>
  <tr>
    <td align="center">
      <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/anxiangsir/asset/main/OneVision/case4.gif" alt="Case 4 Demonstration" width="800"><br>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="center">
      <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/anxiangsir/asset/main/OneVision/case5.gif" alt="Case 5 Demonstration" width="800"><br>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</div>

### Cluster Discrimination Visualization

Standard contrastive learning methods (e.g., CLIP) are fundamentally constrained by batch size, as negative samples are drawn only from the current batch, typically limited to 32K–64K examples. This restriction yields a narrow and incomplete view of the embedding space, often resulting in suboptimal representation learning. In contrast, our approach maintains a global concept bank comprising 2M clustered centers, allowing each training sample to contrast against a diverse and representative set of negatives independent of batch composition. This global contrasting mechanism leads to more discriminative embeddings and well-separated semantic clusters.


<p align="center">
  <picture>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/anxiangsir/asset/main/OneVision/loss_github_dark.gif">
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/anxiangsir/asset/main/OneVision/loss_github_light.gif">
    <img alt="Training Loss Visualization" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/anxiangsir/asset/main/OneVision/loss_github_light.gif" width="800" style="max-width: 100%;">
  </picture>
</p>


---


### LMM Probe Results

We train the model on a mixed dataset comprising 740K samples from LLaVA-OneVision and 800K samples from LLaVA-Video SFT, proceeding directly to Stage-2 fine-tuning. Following a streamlined native-resolution strategy inspired by LLaVA-OneVision, input frames that match the model’s native resolution are fed directly into the network without tiling or cropping, allowing us to fully evaluate the ViT’s native-resolution modeling capability.

<p align="center">
  <picture>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/anxiangsir/asset/main/OneVision/probe_lmm_github_dark_fixed.png">
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/anxiangsir/asset/main/OneVision/probe_lmm_github_light.png">
    <img alt="LMM Probe Results" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/anxiangsir/asset/main/OneVision/probe_lmm_github_light.png" width="800" style="max-width: 100%;">
  </picture>
</p>

### Attentive Probe Results

We compare the performance of different vision encoders using the Attentive Probe evaluation protocol. All models are evaluated with a single-clip input and trained for 10 epochs across eight action recognition datasets. The results report both the average accuracy and per-dataset performance under 8-frame and 16-frame input configurations.

<p align="center">
  <picture>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/anxiangsir/asset/main/OneVision/fix_00_probe_video_github_dark.png">
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/anxiangsir/asset/main/OneVision/fix_00_probe_video_github_light.png">
    <img alt="LMM Probe Results" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/anxiangsir/asset/main/OneVision/probe_lmm_github_light.png" width="900" style="max-width: 100%;">
  </picture>
</p>





## 🔧 Setup

### Prerequisites

- Docker with NVIDIA GPU support
- CUDA-compatible GPU(s)

### Docker Build

#### Option 1: Build from Dockerfile

```bash
docker build -t ov_encoder:25.12 .
```

### Running the Container

#### Single Node

```bash
docker run -it --gpus all --ipc host --net host --privileged \
    -v "$(pwd)":/workspace/OneVision-Encoder \
    -w /workspace/OneVision-Encoder \
    ov_encoder:25.12 bash
```


### Install Package

Inside the container, install the package in editable mode:

```bash
pip install -e .
```

---

## ⚡ Quick Start

> **Note:** This model supports native resolution input. For optimal performance:
> - **Image**: 448×448 resolution (pre-trained)
> - **Video**: 224×224 resolution with 256 tokens per frame (pre-trained)
>
> Use CLIP preprocessing from the [model repository](https://huggingface.co/lmms-lab-encoder/onevision-encoder-large).

```python
from transformers import AutoModel, AutoImageProcessor
from PIL import Image
import torch

# Load model and preprocessor
model = AutoModel.from_pretrained(
    "lmms-lab-encoder/onevision-encoder-large",
    trust_remote_code=True,
    attn_implementation="flash_attention_2"
).to("cuda").eval()

preprocessor = AutoImageProcessor.from_pretrained(
    "lmms-lab-encoder/onevision-encoder-large",
    trust_remote_code=True
)

# Image inference: [B, C, H, W]
image = Image.open("path/to/your/image.jpg")  # Replace with your image path
pixel_values = preprocessor(images=image, return_tensors="pt")["pixel_values"].to("cuda")
with torch.no_grad():
    outputs = model(pixel_values)
    # outputs.last_hidden_state: [B, num_patches, hidden_size]
    # outputs.pooler_output: [B, hidden_size]

# Video inference: [B, C, T, H, W] with visible_indices
num_frames, frame_tokens, target_frames = 16, 256, 64
# Load video frames and preprocess each frame (replace with your video frame paths)
frames = [Image.open(f"path/to/frame_{i}.jpg") for i in range(num_frames)]
video_pixel_values = preprocessor(images=frames, return_tensors="pt")["pixel_values"]
# Reshape from [T, C, H, W] to [B, C, T, H, W]
video = video_pixel_values.unsqueeze(0).permute(0, 2, 1, 3, 4).to("cuda")

# Build visible_indices for temporal sampling
frame_pos = torch.linspace(0, target_frames - 1, num_frames).long().cuda()
visible_indices = (frame_pos.unsqueeze(-1) * frame_tokens + torch.arange(frame_tokens).cuda()).reshape(1, -1)
# visible_indices example (with 256 tokens per frame):
#   Frame 0 (pos=0):  indices [0, 1, 2, ..., 255]
#   Frame 1 (pos=4):  indices [1024, 1025, 1026, ..., 1279]
#   Frame 2 (pos=8):  indices [2048, 2049, 2050, ..., 2303]
#   ...
#   Frame 15 (pos=63): indices [16128, 16129, ..., 16383]

with torch.no_grad():
    outputs = model(video, visible_indices=visible_indices)
```

### Codec Input

Add codec-style input documentation for temporal saliency-based patch selection.

---

## 🚀 Training

### Single Node & Multi Node

Training configurations and hyperparameters will be documented soon. For now, please refer to `--help` for available options.

## 📊 Evaluation

### Attentive Probe Evaluation


#### Chunk-wise Sampling Evaluation

To evaluate the encoder with uniform frame sampling, first navigate to the evaluation directory:

```bash
cd eval_encoder
```

Then run the following command:

```bash
torchrun --nproc_per_node=8 --master_port=29507 attentive_probe.py \
  --eval_freq 1 \
  --default_lr_list 0.0001 \
  --batch_size 32 \
  --default_weight_decay 0 \
  --dali_py_num_workers 8 \
  --model_family llava_vit_sampling \
  --dataset diving48 \
  --num_frames 8 \
  --model_weight lmms-lab-encoder/onevision-encoder-large \
  --model_name hf_llava_vit_large_ln \
  --embedding_size 1024 \
  --frames_token_num 256
```

**Sampling-Specific Parameters:**
- `frames_token_num`: Number of tokens per frame (e.g., 256 tokens for standard sampling).

#### OV-Encoder Codec Evaluation

To evaluate the encoder with codec-style patch selection, first navigate to the evaluation directory:

```bash
cd eval_encoder
```

Then run the following command:

```bash
torchrun --nproc_per_node=8 --master_port=29512 attentive_prob_codec.py \
  --eval_freq 1 \
  --default_lr_list 0.0001 \
  --batch_size 4 \
  --default_weight_decay 0 \
  --dali_py_num_workers 8 \
  --model_family llava_vit_codec \
  --dataset diving48 \
  --num_frames 64 \
  --model_weight lmms-lab/onevision-encoder-large \
  --model_name hf_llava_vit_large_ln \
  --embedding_size 1024 \
  --default_epoch 30 \
  --data_root /path/to/your/data_attentive_probe/ \
  --cache_dir /path/to/your/cache_residuals/ \
  --K_keep 2048 \
  --mv_compensate median
```

**Codec-Specific Parameters:**
- `cache_dir`: Directory for cached codec patches. This is where the codec-selected patches will be stored/loaded.
- `K_keep`: Number of patches to keep. For example, 256 patches per frame × 8 frames = 2048 total patches. Adjust based on your frame count and desired compression ratio.
- `mv_compensate`: Motion vector compensation method (e.g., `median`).

#### Shared Parameters

The following parameters are common to both evaluation methods:

- `dataset`: Dataset to evaluate on (e.g., `diving48`, `ssv2`, `kinetics400`). Prepare the dataset according to the Attentive Probe format.
- `num_frames`: Total number of frames in the video sequence (e.g., 8 for sampling, 64 for codec).
- `model_weight`: Path to the pre-trained model. Use `lmms-lab-encoder/onevision-encoder-large` to load directly from HuggingFace, or provide a local path.
- `model_name`: Model architecture name (e.g., `hf_llava_vit_large_ln`).
- `embedding_size`: Size of the embedding dimension (e.g., 1024).
- `batch_size`: Training batch size (varies by evaluation type).
- `default_lr_list`: Learning rate for the probe training.
- `default_weight_decay`: Weight decay for optimization.
- `eval_freq`: Evaluation frequency during training.
- `dali_py_num_workers`: Number of DALI data loading workers.
- `data_root`: Root directory containing your prepared dataset (codec evaluation only).


## 👥 Contributors

<!-- Add contributor list here -->

---

## 📄 License

This project is released under the Apache 2.0 License.

---

## 📚 Documentation

- [Model Card](docs/model_card.md) - Detailed documentation for OneVision Encoder Large model
- [Data Card](docs/datacard.md) - Training dataset information and statistics
